# MultiLingualPBI
This is a project that builds a Power BI Report that displays data in a user's language.
Author(s): Stacey Jones with help from others
Use: This software is an example of displaying data in a Power BI Report that is translated to a user's preferred language. It uses SQL Server, C#, Azure Cognitive Services, and Power BI. The solution works by creating a C# project that provides a DLL to make http post function available. This function is called by a SQL Server CLR function to translate the given English text into the language specified. It does this by specifying the http post command to be passed to the DLL. This call must also specify the key of the TranslatorText Cognitive Service that will perform the translation. The data in the table you wish to translate must be joined by "cartesian join" to the table of supported languanges. This will theoretically duplicate rows for every language, but because Power BI will filter the dataset to only the user's desired language via Row Level Security, the duplicates should be eliminated before the results are returned to Power BI. Please see the attached C# project for the DLL code. The SQLScripts folder contains the SQL objects that are necessary, but the CLR function must be created manually via the GUI in Visual Studio. Lastly, the enclosed Power BI Report contains further documentation along with the sample report. Enjoy!

This project is released to the public under the MIT License. See the attached LICENSE file for details.
Disclaimer: I work for Microsoft, but the software is of my own design and is not owned by Microsoft. I am not a professional developer and no effort was spent in making this software secure. It is up to the consumer to implement the desired security.
